Rationale

Student ID: u3159636
Words: 560
Assignment tracker is a web application that helps the student to track their works as well as to arrange the priority to do the task. The application has 5 basic functions: adding, modifying, deleting and presenting the tasks. Moreover, the application allows users to register and login. The menu bar of the web application is fixed on top of the web page. It contains the logo of the website on the left and the log out function on the right. When users hover the logo, a drop-down menu will appear and contain the links to others page. Users can put title, subject, due date, priority and note for the tasks. Whenever users add, update or delete a task, a message shows up to inform the users that the action is successful.  During the process to conduct the final website, I came across a lot of difficulties. 

In my opinion, the most difficult task for me is creating a registration form and make users database. At first, the registration form was error as it did not save the user’s information on the database. I knew it means the register page did not connect to the database. I did some research from the external source and tested it. However, it still did not work. After I ask the tutor to help me solve this problem, it turned out I use the wrong method database. I learned that there are 2 types of methods: MySQLi and PDO. The MySQLi is an extension to work with MySQL and PDO (PHP Data Objects) is a general database abstraction layer with support for MySQL.

Secondly, the most time-consuming task for the application is the user interface. Even though I already have knowledge about HTML and CSS, it still took a lot of time for me to design and polish all the contents nicely. A good user interface has to be easy to use for the users. Therefore, the information is presented in table and form with an appropriate label. The heading is put on the centre of the page to let users know which page they are in. Every page has menu bar on the top so that it is convenient for the users to navigate the application or log out whenever they want.

Putting web application to be alive on the internet is my final challenge of this assignment. As during the process, I used Mamp to test the application. I must find a web hosting to be able to run the application online. So, I found infinityfree.net which is a web service allow me to have free hosting and access to the cPanel. Then, I use FTP (File Transfer Protocol) to upload the files from my laptop. 

From the assignment, my knowledge about PHP has been improved. All the materials are provided on the Canvas and it gives me the directions step by step to build a basic web application on the internet. I learned the basic syntax on PHP, PHP database and how to connect it with the user interface to save the inputs. I also learned more about web hosting and how to make a website online. I now acknowledge the challenge and the reality to make a website. Overall, it gives me an idea about creating web application next time and guides me to explore more about the back-end environment.
